## 8.2 Processes

##### What is a process?

> The classic definition of a **process** is an **instance** of a **program** in execution.
> Each program in the system runs in the **context** of some processes.
> The context consists of the state that the program need to run correctly. This state includes the program's code and data stored in memory, its stack, the contects of its general-purpose registers, its program counter, environment variables, and the set of open file descriptors.

* Appliction: program
* System: process
* abstractions: a independent logical control flow, a private address space

##### independent logical control flow

*concurrent flow*: A logical flow whose execution overlaps in time with another flow is called a *concurrent flow*.

*parallel flow*: Two flows are running concurrently on different processor cores or computers.

##### private address space

A process provides each program with its own *private address space*.
A byte of memory associated with a particular address in the space cannot in general be read or written by any other process.

##### User and Kernel Modes

Target: Restricts the instructions that an application can execute.

Mode setting: A *mode bit* in some control register that characterizes the process privileges.

Switch: The only way for the process to change from user mode to kernel mode is via an **exception** such as interrupt, a fault, or a trapping system call.

Accessibility: the `/proc` filesystem allows user mode processes to access the contents of kernal data structures.

##### Context Switches

lower-level *exception* mechanism

*context* of process:

* register
* stack
* kernel data structures: a page table, a process table, and a file table

when context switch occur:

* system call: *read* system call, *sleep* system call
* interrupt: the kernal can decide the process switchgs

